# Online-Electricity-and-Water-Bill-Management-System
This is a web application which aims to develop an online system to manage electricity and water billing (automate the process of manual bill management system) for the administrator and customer.
First user must create an account for the system and then register for the electricity and water bill management system (all the relevant information that includes in the manual bill which guarantees the user authentication is taken when registering). After successfully creating an account user will be automatically directed to electricity management bill dashboard and from there user can switch to water bill management system. After successful registration they must upload a clear image of the meter to get updated about their usage and durable payment for the corresponding month bill. If the entered information about essential data were incorrect or the image uploaded was not clear, then user will be again asked to enter them. Although user can pay the bill amount online through the online payment portal included in the web application. Furthermore, user can download a pdf version of the bill and can view the usage of last six months from their respective dashboards to keep track of the it. Web application includes multi language option to users who are not much fluent with English. Therefore, they select their preferable language from English, Sinhala and Tamil and continue to use it without any issues. The head of the unit (administrators) can make overall viewing of the status of the bills in the live dashboard which can be viewed using desktops and mobile devices which connected to the internet. Administrators updates the durable bill (a form which has the same details as the manual bill) with respective to the month to the users to get update about their bills. 
They can send reminders for the users to upload image, pay the bill before deadlines, etc. Any category of user such as in industrial, domestic, government hospitals and schools, restaurants, religious and charity can access this system to manage their electricity and water bills. Administrators can view the electricity and water consumption for each category of last six months and they can decide to distribute water and electricity efficiently according to those. They are also given the permission to add users or register users to the system as some may face issues when using those and can view the users who didn’t pay the durable amount and who didn’t upload an image of the meter before deadline through the system.
